Newsletters: add 243 (2023-03-22) (#1049)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2023-03-22-newsletter.md

  greenlight], Lightning Service Provider (LSP) features, and other services.

- **PSBT-based exchange OpenOrdex launches:**
  The [open source][github openordex] exchange software allows sellers to create
  an order book of Ordinal satoshis using [PSBTs][topic psbt] and buyers to sign
  and broadcast to complete the trade.

- **BTCPay Server coinjoin plugin released:**
  The Wasabi Wallet [announcement][wasabi blog] notes that any BTCPay Server
  merchant can activate the optional plugin which supports the
  [WabiSabi][news194 wabisabi] protocol for [coinjoins][topic coinjoin].

- **mempool.space explorer enhances CPFP support:**
  The mempool.space [explorer][topic block explorers] announced [additional
  support][mempool tweet] for [CPFP][topic cpfp]-related transactions.

- **Sparrow v1.7.3 released:**
  Sparrow's [v1.7.3 release][sparrow v1.7.3] includes [BIP129][] support for multisig wallets (see
  [Newsletter #136][news136 bsms]) and custom block explorer support among other features.

- **Stack Wallet adds coin control, BIP47:**
  Recent releases of the [Stack Wallet][github stack wallet] add [coin
  control][topic coin selection] features and [BIP47][] support.

> 

Reviewer: @MarnixCroes thanks for the heads up, looks like this was released an hour ago! 

I made a small change to lowercase taproot (see Optech [style guide relevant section](https://github.com/bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io/blob/master/STYLE.md#common-nouns))

<!-- FIXME:harding to update tuesday -->

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo], [Core
Lightning][core lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LDK][ldk repo],
[LND][lnd repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1 repo], [Hardware Wallet
Interface (HWI)][hwi repo], [Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay
Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [LND #7448][] adds a new rebroadcaster interface to resubmit
  unconfirmed transactions especially to address transactions that were
  evicted from mempools. When enabled, the rebroadcaster will submit
  unconfirmed transactions to the attached full node once per block
  until it is confirmed. LND was already rebroadcasting transactions in
  a similar fashion when operating in Neutrino-mode. As noted in a
  previously covered the Stack Exchange Q&A, [Bitcoin Core currently
  does not rebroadcast transactions][no rebroadcast], although it would
  be desirable for privacy and reliability if full node behavior were
  amended to rebroadcast any transactions that the node had expected to

>   have been included in the prior block. Until then, it is the wallets’

Reviewer: maybe

```suggestion
  have been included in the prior block. Until then, it is the wallet’s
```

Reviewer 2: That works as well. :+1:

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #243'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2023/03/22/
name: 2023-03-22-newsletter
slug: 2023-03-22-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME:harding

## News

*No significant news this week was found on the Bitcoin-Dev or
Lightning-Dev mailing lists.*

## Changes to services and client software

*In this monthly feature, we highlight interesting updates to Bitcoin
wallets and services.*

- **Xapo Bank supports Lightning:**
  Xapo Bank [announced][xapo lightning blog] its customers can now send outgoing
  Lightning payments from the Xapo Bank mobile apps, using underlying infrastructure from Lightspark.

- **TypeScript library for miniscript descriptors released:**

>   The TypeScript-based [Bitcoin Descriptors Library][github descriptors library]
>   has support for [PSBTs][topic psbt], [descriptors][topic descriptors],
>   [miniscript][topic miniscript], and signing support including some hardware
>   signing devices.

Reviewer 2: This feels a bit unclear. The enumeration describes a few different technologies, but the signing support seems to refer to all of the former as well as the following hardware signing devices. Perhaps splitting the sentence would clarify:

```suggestion
  The TypeScript-based [Bitcoin Descriptors Library][github descriptors library]
  has support for [PSBTs][topic psbt], [descriptors][topic descriptors],
  and [miniscript][topic miniscript]. This includes support for signing directly, or via some hardware signing devices.
```

- **Breez Lightning SDK announced:**
  In a recent [blog post][breez blog], Breez announced the open source [Breez
  SDK][github breez sdk] for mobile developers who want to integrate Bitcoin and
  Lightning payments. The SDK includes support for [Greenlight][blockstream
  greenlight], Lightning Service Provider (LSP) features, and other services.

- **PSBT-based exchange OpenOrdex launches:**
  The [open source][github openordex] exchange software allows sellers to create
  an order book of Ordinal satoshis using [PSBTs][topic psbt] and buyers to sign
  and broadcast to complete the trade.

- **BTCPay Server coinjoin plugin released:**
  The Wasabi Wallet [announcement][wasabi blog] notes that any BTCPay Server
  merchant can activate the optional plugin which supports the

>   [WabiSabi][news194 wabisabi] protocol for [coinjoins][topic coinjoin].

Author: Changing this internal link to newsletter 101, which I think has a better description (and no distraction about payjoins).

Reviewer: ACK on this and the other client/services section updates.

Server][btcpay server repo], [BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement
Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and [Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

- [LND #7448][] adds a new rebroadcaster interface to resubmit
  unconfirmed transactions especially to address transactions that were
  evicted from mempools. When enabled, the rebroadcaster will submit
  unconfirmed transactions to the attached full node once per block
  until it is confirmed. LND was already rebroadcasting transactions in
  a similar fashion when operating in Neutrino-mode. As noted in a
  previously covered the Stack Exchange Q&A, [Bitcoin Core currently
  does not rebroadcast transactions][no rebroadcast], although it would
  be desirable for privacy and reliability if full node behavior were
  amended to rebroadcast any transactions that the node had expected to
  have been included in the prior block. Until then, it is the wallets’
  responsibility to ensure the presence of transactions of interest in
  mempools.

- [BDK #793][] is a major restructuring of the library based on the work
  of the [bdk_core sub-project][].  According to the PR description, it
  "maintains the existing wallet API as much as possible and adds very

>   little."  Three seemingly minor changed APIs are listed in the PR

Reviewer 2: How about:

```suggestion
  little."  Three API endpoints with seemingly minor changes are listed in the PR
```
